Although our financial contributions are important,
those that volunteer on construction projects
know that money alone cannot make it successful.
We met a brother from Micronesia
who has a experience with such projects,
and he has seen what he believes
is clearly Jehovah's Hand in Matters.
The buildings that we construct
are vital in accomplishing Jehovah's will.
Without the financial support
from the brothers and sisters,
we wouldn't have the funds needed
to make these projects happen,
but Jehovah's support far outweighs
any financial support that's given.
You can't replace that with anything.
My name is Travis Brooks.
My wife, Lacey, and I serve in Micronesia.
Our assignment is serving in the LDC department,
which is a local design construction department.
We care for all the islands of Micronesia.
It covers the same distance
from California to New York,
but if you took all those islands and put them together,
they would be smaller than the state of Rhode Island,
so it's very vast and spread out.
We've seen Jehovah's Hand
many times throughout the years
on our projects.
One that stands out to us
is the riot congregation in particular.
This congregation had been meeting in a house
for a number of years,
and they'd have 70, 80, 90,
and attendance at times,
but they would sit outside
because they couldn't fit in the house,
and many of them would listen through the window
or observe through the door,
through the rain,
and they'd have a tarp set up
just to try to keep dry.
So we found this piece of property,
but the problem was that the government
had just placed a ban on
dredging sand and coral
out of the ocean or off the beaches.
Without having that,
we wouldn't be able to mix our concrete
to accomplish our project.
So there was one company on the island
that had stockpiled sand and aggregate.
We had gone to them a number of times
telling them asking them
if we could purchase just eight yards
of cement for our footings
so that we could at least get started.
And they kept denying our request
and the construction overseer and myself
decided we'd go one more time
to that cement company
and plead our case with them.
And we pulled into the parking lot
of the company and discussed
maybe what we could say
to convince them to at least sell us
the eight yards that we needed.
We made it a matter of prayer again
and we both exited the vehicle
and as we were approaching
the doors of the company
as the blue pickup pulled in
and kind of intercepted us.
The gentleman, local man,
hopped out of his truck
and said,
can I help you?
And he was the man who was in charge.
Well, we explained our situation
and he said,
well, you'll have your concrete
the next morning.
What was interesting about that
and which really made us feel like
Jova had a hand in the matter
was that gentleman had just flown
in the night before
from another island.
He'd been gone for quite some time.
He had pulled in,
talked to us,
and then hop back in his truck
and drove away.
So we wondered,
why did he pull in in the first place?
Well, we didn't want to argue with it.
We just took advantage of the situation
and the next morning,
seven o'clock, the truck rolled in
and we poured our fillings.
So we kept moving forward
with the project until we got to that stage
where we would need to fill
the blockwork with 80 yards of sand
on an island with no sand.
So again, we made it a matter of prayer
and knew that if, again,
Jova wanted to build,
it would be built.
So we scoured the island again
to see if there was anybody willing
and we were unsuccessful.
So on our way back to the construction site
and the construction overseer
and I stopped at a store
to purchase something.
And we were talking to the gentleman
behind the counter,
explaining the situation to him
and the man asked,
well, how much sand do you need?
And we told him,
oh, 80 yards,
which is quite a bit.
And the man said,
well, I have 90 yards in my backyard.
I don't have anything to do with it.
So you're more than welcome to it.
And he said, when do you need it?
He said, well, we need it tomorrow morning.
And the man said, well, I have a dump truck too.
So I'll see you in the morning.
Well, the next morning he showed up
and we were able to fill that area
and move on with the project.
Another experience that really stands out to me is
an experience we had on the island of Yap.
We were doing a renovation
of a remote translation office
and an extension of the Kingdom Hall
because of the growth that they've had in the congregation.
They've outgrown their Kingdom Hall.
So for that extension,
we would need cement and sand for backfill.
And again, this was an island,
which is ironic that you can't really get sand on,
because there's no companies that sell it.
So what you do is you go from village to village,
asking the village chief
if he would be willing to sell sand off of his beach.
Well, after visiting all the villages,
no one was willing to sell any of their sand that we needed.
Until we reached the last village,
which was willing to sell the sand.
But the problem was there was a dispute
between two chiefs that bordered that beach.
And one chief said,
though, that's my sand, the other one,
said it was his sand.
Well, they couldn't come to an agreement,
so they weren't willing to sell the sand to us.
So we were at the stage
where we were getting ready to need it
a few days so we could move forward
with the extension of the Kingdom Hall.
At that point, things got worse
because there was a typhoon approaching the island.
So we just had the construction crew stop work.
So the next morning,
we were able to get in contact
with a construction overseer on the island.
And he said, I've got really good news.
There was no damage.
The storm took a turn just before it hit the island
and just grazed it.
He says, I have some other good news.
And I just got a call from the village chiefs.
Apparently, the storm surge
had washed up a bunch of sand
over their road to their villages
and they had no way of removing it.
So they said, we have plenty of sand.
Can you come and help us get rid of it?
So we ended up having enough sand
for the rest of the project.
Jehovah's Blessing
is the most important thing
that we can have on our projects
from the start to the finish.
There will be no obstacle
that can be put before you,
that you can't overcome.
And we've seen that time and again.
The finances is an important part of the project
to include when you're thinking about
what projects you're going to do next
and how you're going to accomplish it.
But financial support
doesn't create the loving atmosphere
that we find on these projects.
It doesn't create unity.
It doesn't motivate ones
to want to serve Jehovah
and work hard day in and day out
together with their brothers and sisters.
That's where Jehovah's Spirit comes in.
That's what's moving our brothers and sisters.
That's what motivates us to work hard together.
Without Jehovah's Hand in it,
like we've seen,
we wouldn't accomplish what we've been able to accomplish.